---
layout: post
title: Why Become A Developer?
---

I have worked in the IT industry for the passed 20 years.  The bulk of my time in IT was spent with [NameAStar](https://www.nameastar.com) an online gift company.  In that time my skill set did not have many good opportunities to expand, it was a fairly static environment and changes did not happen very often.  I was then laid off as the competition among the other websites selling similar products had split the market share to such a degree none of us really where making good enough profits to support many employees.  

So upon re-entering the job market I realized my profession had become inundated with perspective employee's,  when I first entered the market 20 years ago there was vastly less competition.  After unsuccessfully trying to get an IT job for 30 days or so I decided I needed to upgrade my skill set and began looking for options to address that need.  My niece happened to be working for a coding program and during a visit to my step-sister I had a chance to ask her some questions about it.  I asked her what her experience was like in the program and how she felt about working for them, as well as how she felt about her results of the program.  She explained how difficult she felt the program had been at times but that she was always able to get help when she needed it or have more resources provided to her for anything she might not be understanding.  Her description of her experiences in the program in no small part led to my decision to enroll as well.

Which of course lead to an all new adventure.. applying for a home equity loan to pay for the enrollment!  Initially this seemed like a straight forward process,  go to the bank and apply for the load, wait for approval to come through.  But as with many things in life, this just wasn't the case.  We found out that due to the nature of our first time home buyers loan we had a marker on our Deed of Trust which was keeping us from being able to get a loan on our equity in the home.  We had to track down the now retired lawyer that handled all of the sales of the homes in our neighborhood and ask that they take a lower title on our loan which would allow the bank to step into that spot and provide an equity loan for our house.

While this all points to certain motivation to become a software developer, it isn't really addressing the why of it all.  I guess I would have to say the job market for developers is vast and largely unfilled currently.  With the given push currently to get people to learn to code it seems like a good avenue to pursue.  It's my hope that I can find enjoyment in this line of work so that it doesn't become a drudge to go to work everyday, but rather an opportunity to create something fun.
